1. Write a C++ program to perform different arithmetic operation such as addition,
subtraction, division, modulus and multiplication using inline function.

2. Write a program to define an array of nested class students, which contains data
members such as name, rollno and sex and consists of two more classes date whose data
members are day month and year and another class age whose data member is age.
Read students information from keyboard and display the contents on the screen

3. Create two classes DM and DM which store the value of distances. DM stores distances in
meters and centimeters and DB in feet and inches. Write a program that can read values
for the class object and add one object of DM with another object of DM. use friend
function to carry out the addition operation. The object that stores the results may be a
DM object or DB object , depending on the units in which the results are required.
The display should be in the format of feet and inches or meters and centimeters
depending on the object on display user’s choice.

4. Write a program to create a class vector (a series of float values). Include member functions to
create and display the vectors. Also add two vectors and multiply a vector by a scalar value by
operator overloading. Write the overloaded function to add two vectors using a friend function.
To display the vector in the form (10,20,30…)

5. Assume that a bank maintains two kinds of accounts for customers, one called as savings account
and the other as current account. The savings account provides compound interest and
withdrawal facilities but no cheque book facility. The current account provides cheque book
facility but no interest. Current account holders should also maintains a minimum balance and if
the balance falls below this level a service charge is imposed.
Create a class Account that stores customer name, account number and type of account. From
this derive the classescur_acct and sav_acct to make them more specific to their requirements.
Include necessary member functions in order to achieve the following tasks:
a. Accept deposit from a customer and update the balance.
b. Display the balance.
c. Compute and deposit interest.
d. Permit withdrawal and update the balance.
Check for the minimum balance, impose penalty if necessary, and update the balance.(19)

6. A bookshop maintains the inventory of books that are being sold at the shop. The list includes
details such as author, title, price, publisher and stock position. Whenever a customer wants a
book, the sales person inputs the title and author and system searches the list and displays
whether it is available or not. If it is not an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the
system displays the book details and requests for the number of copies required. If the
requested copies are available, the total cost of the required copies is displayed, other wise the
message “Sorry! These many copies are not in stock.”
Design a system using a class called stock with suitable member functions and constructors. The
program should be menu driven and should include proper validations. Use new operator in
constructors to allocated memory space required.

7. Write a menu driven program to perform matrix operations (Addition, subtraction and
multiplication) using operator overloading. Try to write the overloaded function for
multiplication using friend function and other two operations using member functions. Use
appropriate constructors also.

8. Write a Program to overload operators like *, <<, >> using friend function. The following
overloaded operators should work for a class vector.

9. Write a Program which creates & uses array of object of a class.( for eg. implementing the list of
Managers of a Company having details such as Name, Age, etc..).

10. Write a C++ program to using friend function to swapping private data of two classes. [ hint:
Create two classes class C1 and C2. In class C1 private data members value1 and member
functions inputdata(parameter), dispalydata() and friend function void exchange(parameters), in
class C2 private data members value2 and member functions inputdata( parameter),
dispalydata() and friend function void exchange(parameters) inter change value1 and value2
using exchange()function].

11. Write a C++ program to create three objects for a class named pntr_obj with data members such
as roll_no & name . Create a member function set_data() for setting the data values and print()
member function to print which object has invoked it using ‘this’ pointer.

12. Write a Program to design a class having static member function named showcount() which has
the property of displaying the number of objects created of the class.

13. Create a class “string” as user defined string type. Include constructors to create and initialize a
string. Overload the operators + and ≤ to add and compare two strings.

14. Write a program to design a class representing the information regarding digital library (books,
tape: book & tape should be separate classes having the base class as media ). The class should
have the functionality for adding new item, issuing, deposit etc. the program should use the
runtime polymorphism.

15. Write a C++ program to explain virtual function (polymorphism) by creating a base
classc_polygon which has virtual function area(). Two classes rectangle and traingle derived from
polygon and they have area() to calculate and return the area of rectangle and triangle
respectively.

16. Create a class TIME with data members hours, minutes and seconds. Include constructors to
read and display time objects. Write a C++ program to add 2 time objects using operator
overloading.

17. Write a function power() to raise a number m to a power n. the function takes a double value for
m and int value for n, and returns the result correctly Use a default values of 4 for n to make the
function to calculate.

18.Write a program to create a class Salary contains data membershra, cca, bp, total. Create another
class Tax contain data member name. Derive a class Income_tax from salary and tax. Include
member function to accept data from keyboard and display the output on the screen. Calculate
hra as 10% of the bp, da as 30% of the bp, ccaRs. 200, total as 12 times of (bp+da+hra+cca) and
calculate income tax as the following rules.
Total (yearly income) Rate
>60,000 && ≤80,000 20%
>80,000 && ≤1,0 0,000 30%
>1,00,000 40%
Give options to add, modify, delete and search records. Also give suitable validations to the fields.
